JUDY WOODRUFF: And for more
on the latest documents in
the Russia investigation, we
turn to the vice chairman on
the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence, Mark Warner of
Virginia.
He joins us from Capitol Hill.
Senator Warner, thank
you for being here.
What do you make of
this latest story?
ÑMD-BOÑSEN.
MARK WARNER (D), Virginia: Well,
Judy, again, I have said this
a couple of times, that you
can't make some
of this stuff up.
It would -- it
strains credibility.
This bothers me on
a variety of levels.
One, it bothers me that this
is a continuing series of
individuals affiliated with the
Trump campaign or the Trump
administration who say they
have had no meetings or contacts
with Russians, until there is
proof of those meetings, and
then they have to recant or,
in the case of General Flynn,
the national security adviser,
he got fired, or the attorney
general had to recuse himself.
And what's particularly, I
think, significant about these
last 48 hours is, this is the
first time the public is seeing
now in black and white what we
have heard from the intelligence
community, that there was an
organized effort by the Russian
government to interfere to
help one candidate, Donald
Trump, to hurt another
candidate, Hillary Clinton.
And what is so particularly
disturbing is that we have
now got the president's son,
the president's son-in-law and
the president's campaign manager
at the time all being willing
to take the meeting that this
so-called Russian agent, or at
least has been represented as
part of this Russian government
effort to discredit Clinton,
and that they were anxious
to receive this
kind of information.
I find that -- and there
would be folks like
special counsel Mueller
who will have to determine
whether that meets a legal
standard of criminality,
but it sure does make
it very important that
we in the Senate investigating
committee get a chance
to talk to all three
of these individuals,
which we plan to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well,
you mentioned -- you
used the word collusion.
You said that's what this
investigation has been about.
One of your Democratic
colleagues on the Intelligence
Committee, Senator Wyden
of Oregon, said today
this proves there was at
least an attempt at collusion.
Is that how you see it?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Well, Judy,
I feel like my job in
this investigation is to
keep this investigation
bipartisan, working
along with Chairman Burr.
I'm going to reserve my final
judgments until we get a chance
to talk to all of the witnesses,
get all of the information that
we're continuing to collect.
But it sure as heck bothers me
that there is this continuing
pattern of individuals
from the Trump campaign and
the Trump administration
denying these contacts
with Russians, and
then, when the proof comes
out, they dodge or dance
or amend their filings.
Well, now, in a particular case,
we're asked to believe that the
president's son and son-in-law
had information that was part
of a Russian government effort
to discredit their opponent,
and that somehow that was
never shared with their
father or father-in-law.
Again, I will accept that their
word until we get a chance
to talk to them in person.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Senator,
how do you, though, interpret
their evolving explanations?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: It is -- frankly,
it strains credibility that
this administration continues
to say there's no there there,
yet we have seen this pattern,
not with one, two, three,
but literally I think it was
close to a dozen individuals
that have either been affiliated
with the information or in a
case of certain spokespeople
who said, for example, that Jim
Comey was fired because of his
bad performance with handling
the Hillary Clinton e-mails,
only to be corrected by the
president himself when he called
James Comey a nutjob in front
of the Russians and said it
was all about the Russian
investigation itself.
So, we have this constant
pattern where this
administration doesn't
come clean on these
items involving Russia until
the proof comes out, and then
we hear fairly feeble excuses.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I hear
you saying, Senator,
you're not prepared to
pronounce whether there
was collusion.
You're not prepared to
say whether there was
illegality, but you have
been around politics
now for a number of years.
How do you judge, how do you
weigh the -- at least the facts
on the table at this point?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Well, Judy, I
have heard some of the people
coming to the defense of the
president's son that this
was a rookie mistake.
I don't accept that.
I think anyone of any kind
of basic knowledge would know
that you don't take information
from a foreign power, and
particularly a foreign power
that's an adversary like Russia.
And, clearly, what was laid
out in the e-mail in black and
white was that this was part
of a Russian government effort
to help then candidate Trump.
And you see, not only was there
no pushback on that, but in
terms of reading the e-mail,
Donald Trump Jr. said, that's
great, and wouldn't it be great
if we got that information late
in the summer?
And if you follow the timeline
-- I'm sure all your audience
hasn't followed this quite
as closely as I have -- but
it was late in the summer that
more and more of these DNC
e-mails were released, where
then Trump confidant Roger Stone
first started tweeting about the
fact that he had contact with
a Russian cutout, Guccifer 2.0,
and that it would soon be John
Podesta's turn in
the so-called barrel.
And, sure enough, it was John
Podesta's e-mails that were
subsequently leaked as well.
So, the timing, in terms of
what Donald Trump Jr. was hoping
and then what came to pass
is also a little bit curious.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, finally,
how do you view the likelihood
that the president himself
didn't know about this?
The White House is
saying he did not know.
Do you take them at their word?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: I will take them
at their word at this point.
But the idea that the
president's son and son-in-law
had this kind of outreach from
what appears to be an agent of
the Russian government, and that
there was a Russian government
- - knowledge of an
effort to help candidate
Trump, I'm surprised
at least -- and, again,
I will take them at their
word -- but surprised at
least that this wouldn't
come up over dinner
conversation at some point
over the ensuing months.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But can we
assume that's a question
you will be asking?
SEN.
MARK WARNER: You can
assume darn right that's a
question I will be asking.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator
Mark Warner, vice chairman
of the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence,
we thank you.
SEN.
MARK WARNER: Thank you, Judy.